---
layout: post
title:  Database Management Systems Practice #1 – Oracle Optimizer 
categories: [blog ]
tags: [study,database,oracle,optmizer ]
description: Generate the execution plan for some SQL statements analyzing the following issues: 
1.access paths 2.join orders and join methods 3.operation orders 4.exploitation of indexes defined
by the user. The evaluation will be performed using Oracle Database 10g Express Edition (Oracle XE).
---  
**Setting up the optimizer environment**
 At the beginning of working session you need to perform the following steps:
 1.compute statistics on tables by means of the Web Interface or by the following script comp_statistics_tables.sql

Query optimization with statistics uses the collected statistics on the tables and indexes in a query to select an execution plan that
can process the query in the most efficient manner. The optimizer attempts to choose the best execution plan based on the following
parameters:

the selectivity on the CONTAINS predicate
the selectivity of other predicates in the query
the CPU and I/O costs of processing the CONTAINS predicates
#### Collecting Statistics
By default, the extensible query optimizer is enabled. To use the extensible optimizer, you must calculate the statistics on the table 
you query. To do so, issue the following statement:
`ANALYZE TABLE <table_name> COMPUTE STATISTICS; `
 2.check if there exist secondary indexes by means of the following SQL query select INDEX_NAME from USER_INDEXES;
 if  secondary  indexes  (without  considering  system  indexes,  e.g.,  SYS_#)  have  been  created, please, drop
 them by means of the following SQL statement DROP INDEX IndexName;
 
 ###### Query1
Change  the  optimizer  goal  from  ALL  ROWS  (best  throughput) to  FIRST_ROWS  (best  response time)

**First_rows** attempts to optimize the query to get the very first row back to the client as fast as possible. This is good for an interactive client server environment where the client runs a query and shows the user the first 10 rows or so and waits for them to page down to get more.

**All_rows** attempts to optimize the query to get the very last row as fast as possible. This makes sense in a stored procedure for example where the client does not regain control until the stored procedure completes. You don't care if you have to wait to get the first row if the last row gets back to you twice as fast. In a client server/interactive application you may well care about that.
[reference](http://myorastuff.blogspot.it/2008/09/optimizer-mode-firstrows-vs-allrows.html "reference")
