# DNA and Genes  

Biomedical data can be complex and diverse, because they represent what we know about the state of a human organism,  
which is a complex system. It comprises cells with a nucleus containing chromosomes.   

[DNA and genes](http://i.imgur.com/bh0QB62.png)  
The chromosomes contain genes made up of DNA, which code for proteins for the mediation of RNA.  __Proteins__ are responsible   
for many cellular functions, and so have a vital role to play in the health of cells, tissues, systems, and organisms.   
Broadly speaking, living organisms are made of cells, which is the smallest structural and functional unit of an organism.  
Some organisms have several cells, like human beings. Some have only one, like bacteria. Cells generally have a nucleus, in  
particular in humans. And in the case where the nucleus are also organelles is separated from the rest of the cell membranes,   
they are called __eukaryotes__. Otherwise they are called prokaryotes. For example, bacteria prokaryotes, because their components rest directly in the cytoplasm, without membrane separation and without separate nucleus.   

So what exactly is DNA?   
A little bit of biochemistry. Well DNA stands for deoxyribonucleic acid. DNA stores the genetic material in chromosomes  
in each cell nucleus in humans. In viruses for example, the DNA or RNA reside within the organism envelope made of proteins  
without nucleus. There is also some DNA in mitochondria called mitochondrial DNA. DNA is transcribed into RNA out of the nucleus,  
process called __transcription__. RNA stands for ribonucleic acid. RNA is translated into proteins in a cytoplasm organelle called a  ribosome, process called __translation__.   
In summary, DNA generates RNA, which in turn generates proteins.   

DNA and RNA are composed of nucleotides which are molecules of nucleic acid. A nucleotide is made of a nitrogen base,  
a molecule of sugar, and a phosphate group. There are two types of bases, the pyrimidines and the purines, and there  
are three pyrimidines, cytosine, present in DNA and RNA, thymine, present in DNA only, uracil, present in RNA only.   
And the other types of bases are purines, and there are two, adenine, A, present in DNA and RNA, guanine, G, present  
in DNA and RNA. Nucleotides are linked together through a five-carbon sugar with phosphate, ribose for RNA and deoxyribose  
for DNA. So the main difference between DNA and RNA is that DNA can have cytosine while RNA can have uracil. And they used  
different five-carbon sugars. These are the three pyrimidine bases and their molecular structure made of carbon,hydrogen,   
and nitrogen. They have the shape of a hexagon, as you can see. Different groups are attached to the core such as here in  
oxygen methyl group, or nitrogen group. And this is what different shapes between this pyrimidine bases. Because you can see,  
they have pretty much the same shape.    

[DNA and gene2](http://i.imgur.com/pCSMzjZ.png)

There is one extremity that is a five-prime here, and one is that a three-prime, named after which carbon atom is involved.  
For example here there is a three-prime N and a five-prime N and a three-prime N, which is a one having a phosphate group here.  
The Group is not shown on this slide, but there would be an Group on the three-prime end. Succession of a nucleotide compose a   
single strand of DNA. What is beautiful is that from a simple sequence, extraordinary shapes are formed. Two strands of DNA pairs   
themselves in the three-prime D shape in a double helix, where bases are paired. We talk of BP for base pair. A pairs with T, and  
G pairs with C. And the pairings of the bases AT and GC provide chemical bonds responsible for the double helix shape. The 3D shape  
of the DNA takes the form of a chromosome which tells the hereditary information about the person. The __chromosome__ is a structure   
where the DNA is coiled around some proteins called histones. Chromosomes reside in the nucleus of cells. Humans have 46 chromosomes,  
23 pairs. Chromosomes in 22 pairs look the same, but for the third, it's the gender chromosome. Males have an X and a Y chromosome,   
while females have two X chromosomes. See the karyotype to the right, which is a set of chromosomes in a human body.   

So chromosomes have this very particular shape of an X with a central mirror with two small arms and two large arms.   
They have a shape again, resembling an X. Now what is a gene? A __gene__ is a part of the genome that can be transcribed   
to heal a protein. Actually a gene may encode a protein through an RNA sequence, and genes are made of exons and introns.   
__Exons__ are regions coding for proteins and are separated by non-coding regions called __introns__, while the coding regions are  
called exons. To simplify further details, genes are concentrated in certain regions of the genome rich in G and C. Regions   
reaching A and T do not contain genes. Between the two CpG islands, repetition of C and G, separate coding regions from  
non-coding ones, which are the introns. Non-coding regions can also be parts of genes. What I've said so far can vary greatly  
depending on the organism in terms of size and structure. There is a profound diversity of living organisms' genomes. For example,  
cells have DNA, while phages and viruses, which are acellular, can have DNA or RNA as their genetic material. So DNA can have a   
direction when it is double stranded from five-prime to three-prime of the molecule. However, when it is single-stranded, it can be  
read in both directions. The genome can be organized, or not, in chromosomes. The human genome comprises 46 chromosomes, 3 billion   
bases, and 20 to 25,000 genes. It was thought to contain more, but the Human Genome Project completed much earlier than planned when  
fewer genes were discovered. Other species' genome vary in size and number of genes. Human genome has only twice as many genes than   
the primitive worm. However, onions, for example have 12 times as much genome as we do. So the amount of genomic information can vary  
greatly between organisms. So GenBank database is like an encyclopedia of genetic information from over 100,000 distinct organisms.  

