**1. enum type in java**
1) Enums in Java are type-safe and has their own namespace. It means your enum will have a type for example "Currency" in below example and you can not assign any value other than specified in Enum Constants.
  
public enum Currency {
PENNY, NICKLE, DIME, QUARTER
};
Currency coin = Currency.PENNY;
coin = 1; //compilation error


Read more: http://javarevisited.blogspot.com/2011/08/enum-in-java-example-tutorial.html#ixzz4XRqJ24Zx

**2. compareTo and equals**  
http://stackoverflow.com/questions/1551235/java-strings-compareto-vs-equals

**3. TODO**
the summation of ENUM in java   

name() is literally the textual name in the java code of the enum. That means it is limited to strings that can actually appear in your java code, but not all desirable strings are expressible in code. For example, you may need a string that begins with a number. name() will never be able to obtain that string for you.
A practical example when name() and toString() make sense to be different is a pattern where single-valued enum is used to define a singleton. It looks surprisingly at first but makes a lot of sense:

enum SingletonComponent {
    INSTANCE(/*..configuration...*/);

    /* ...behavior... */

    @Override
    String toString() {
      return "SingletonComponent"; // better than default "INSTANCE"
    }
}
In such case:

SingletonComponent myComponent = SingletonComponent.INSTANCE;
assertThat(myComponent.name()).isEqualTo("INSTANCE"); // blah
assertThat(myComponent.toString()).isEqualTo("SingletonComponent"); // better

Explain if and how, in the code of your service, you avoid race conditions on the representation of
the status of caching and on the cached verification results.  
In the exam, I answered:  
In my service, I used static variable cache to store the status of cache:
private static String cache = null;

To avoid the case that one client asks the verification, the other client
changes the status, I used synchronized keyword like this:

public synchronized String getCacheStatus() {
		return cache;
	}
	
which limits the access of the status is just one at once, in GET and Execute Verification
operations, I used this synchronized getCacheStatus() function, which guaranteed this cache
status couldn't be changed while check the cache status in Execute Verification  

But it is not correct, because they are atomic operations, so no need of synchronized keyword.  
Check more at http://javarevisited.blogspot.de/2012/02/what-is-race-condition-in.html  
